docs/guides/admin/docs/installation/rpm-el7.md, before:

Install from Repository (Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.x, CentOS 7.x, Scientific Linux 7.x)
========================================================================================

> *This guide is for EL7 only. There is a separate [CentOS 8 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 guide](rpm-el8.md).*

This guide is based on a RPM software repository available for Red Hat-based Linux distributions provided by Osnabrück
University. This repository provides preconfigured Opencast installations and all necessary 3rd-Party-Tools. Using this
method, you do not have to compile the software by yourself.


Availability
------------

Note that it may take some time (usually about two weeks after a new release is out) before the RPMs are available.
Watch for announcements on [the users list](https://docs.opencast.org/#mailing-lists) or just check which versions are
available in the repository.


Currently Supported
-------------------

- CentOS 7.x (x86\_64)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.x (x86\_64)
- Scientific Linux 7.x (x86\_64)

> *Other architectures like i386, i686, arm, … are not supported!*


Activate Repository
-------------------

First you have to install the necessary repositories so that your package manager can access them:

```sh
yum install -y https://pkg.opencast.org/rpms/release/el/7/noarch/opencast-repository-8-0-1.el8.noarch.rpm
```

It might take some time after the release of a new Opencast version before the RPMs are moved to the stable repository.
Until then, you can use `/etc/yum.repos.d/opencast-testing.repo` instead to get the latest version.
Note that the testing repository is an additional repository and still requires the stable repository to be active.

If you get an error saying that the package `epel-release` is not available, please enable this repository manually.
To do that, follow the
[instructions in the EPEL documentation](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL#How_can_I_use_these_extra_packages.3F).

You can check if the repositories were sucessfully enabled using:

```
yum repolist enabled
```


Install Apache ActiveMQ
-----------------------

The Apache ActiveMQ message broker is required by Opencast. It can be installed on the same machine as Opencast.
ActiveMQ can be installed by running:

    yum install activemq-dist

A prepared configuration file for ActiveMQ can be found at `/usr/share/opencast/docs/scripts/activemq/activemq.xml`
*after Opencast itself has been installed* and should replace `/etc/activemq/activemq.xml`. For an all-in-one
installation the following command should suffice:

    cp /usr/share/opencast/docs/scripts/activemq/activemq.xml /etc/activemq/activemq.xml

ActiveMQ should be started *prior to* Opencast.

More information about how to properly set up ActiveMQ for Opencast can be found in the [message broker configuration
documentation](../configuration/message-broker.md).


Install Opencast
------------------

### Basic Installation

For a basic installation (All-In-One) just run:

    yum install opencast<version>-allinone

…where `<version>` is the major version number of the Opencast release you want to install, e.g. `opencast8-allinone`.
This will install the default distribution of Opencast and all its dependencies.

Don't forget to start configure and start ActiveMQ first as [described in the ActiveMQ installation section
](#install-apache-activemq).

Then start Opencast by running:

    systemctl start opencast.service

While Opencast is preconfigured, it is strongly recommended to follow at least the [Basic Configuration guide
](../configuration/basic.md). It will help you to set your hostname, login information, …


Advanced Installation
---------------------

The basic installation will give you an all-in-one Opencast distribution on a single server.  For productions, most
users prefer deploying Opencast over several machines, which allows for a better workload distribution.  You can list
all available Opencast packages with:

    yum search opencast

This will list all available Opencast distributions in the form `opencast<version>-<dist-type>`. Some commonly used
distributions are:

- `opencast<version>-allinone`
- `opencast<version>-admin`
- `opencast<version>-presentation`
- `opencast<version>-worker`


Upgrading Major Versions
------------------------

Packages will automatically upgrade to the latest minor version in a release series. They do not automatically upgrade
the latest major version. This is intentional since additional migration steps might be necessary for that. For example,
if you install `opencast7-admin` you get the latest 7.x release, not the latest 8.x release. To upgrade from one major
version to another, please consult the upgrade guide for each major version. Still, here is a short overview of the
required steps:

First, stop Opencast:

    systemctl stop opencast.service

As a reminder, these instructions will upgrade your Opencast installation to a new version which is likely incompatible
with older versions, and cannot be rolled back. If you are performing this on a production system, please ensure you
have valid backups prior to taking the next steps.

Uninstall your current Opencast package:

    yum remove opencast

Then install the new version:

    yum install opencast<version>-<distribution>

At this point you must follow the relevant [upgrade instructions](../upgrade.md), prior to starting Opencast again.


Uninstall Opencast
--------------------

To uninstall Opencast, you can run:

    yum remove opencast

This will not touch your created media files or *modified* configuration files.  If you want to remove them as well, you
have to do that by yourself.

    # Remove media files (default location)
    sudo rm -rf /srv/opencast

    # Remove local db, search indexes and working files
    sudo rm -rf /var/lib/opencast

    # Remove configuration files
    sudo rm -rf /etc/opencast

    # Remove logs
    sudo rm -rf /var/log/opencast


Troubleshooting
---------------

### Missing Dependencies

If you try to install Opencast but yum is complaining about missing dependencies, please check if the epel repository is
really activated on your system. Some distributions come with epel preinstalled but disabled. The installation of the
epel-release package will not fix this. You can check what repositories are installed and enabled by executing
`yum repolist enabled` which should give you a list with epel, opencast and opencast-noarch in it. To enable a
repository, edit the configuration file in `/etc/yum.repos.d/`.

Commit message:

Opencast 9 RPM Availability
This patch adds a short note to the RPM installation documentation
stating that the RPMs for Opencast 9 are not yet available.

docs/guides/admin/docs/installation/rpm-el7.md, after:

Install from Repository (Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.x, CentOS 7.x, Scientific Linux 7.x)
========================================================================================

> *This guide is for EL7 only. There is a separate [CentOS 8 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 guide](rpm-el8.md).*

This guide is based on a RPM software repository available for Red Hat-based Linux distributions provided by Osnabrück
University. This repository provides preconfigured Opencast installations and all necessary 3rd-Party-Tools. Using this
method, you do not have to compile the software by yourself.


> __Release__
>
> Opencast 9 is currently not available from the RPM repository.
> It should be available within a week after the release of Opencast 9.


Availability
------------

Note that it may take some time (usually about two weeks after a new release is out) before the RPMs are available.
Watch for announcements on [the users list](https://docs.opencast.org/#mailing-lists) or just check which versions are
available in the repository.


Currently Supported
-------------------

- CentOS 7.x (x86\_64)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.x (x86\_64)
- Scientific Linux 7.x (x86\_64)

> *Other architectures like i386, i686, arm, … are not supported!*


Activate Repository
-------------------

First you have to install the necessary repositories so that your package manager can access them:

```sh
yum install -y https://pkg.opencast.org/rpms/release/el/7/noarch/opencast-repository-8-0-1.el8.noarch.rpm
```

It might take some time after the release of a new Opencast version before the RPMs are moved to the stable repository.
Until then, you can use `/etc/yum.repos.d/opencast-testing.repo` instead to get the latest version.
Note that the testing repository is an additional repository and still requires the stable repository to be active.

If you get an error saying that the package `epel-release` is not available, please enable this repository manually.
To do that, follow the
[instructions in the EPEL documentation](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL#How_can_I_use_these_extra_packages.3F).

You can check if the repositories were sucessfully enabled using:

```
yum repolist enabled
```


Install Apache ActiveMQ
-----------------------

The Apache ActiveMQ message broker is required by Opencast. It can be installed on the same machine as Opencast.
ActiveMQ can be installed by running:

    yum install activemq-dist

A prepared configuration file for ActiveMQ can be found at `/usr/share/opencast/docs/scripts/activemq/activemq.xml`
*after Opencast itself has been installed* and should replace `/etc/activemq/activemq.xml`. For an all-in-one
installation the following command should suffice:

    cp /usr/share/opencast/docs/scripts/activemq/activemq.xml /etc/activemq/activemq.xml

ActiveMQ should be started *prior to* Opencast.

More information about how to properly set up ActiveMQ for Opencast can be found in the [message broker configuration
documentation](../configuration/message-broker.md).


Install Opencast
------------------

### Basic Installation

For a basic installation (All-In-One) just run:

    yum install opencast<version>-allinone

…where `<version>` is the major version number of the Opencast release you want to install, e.g. `opencast8-allinone`.
This will install the default distribution of Opencast and all its dependencies.

Don't forget to start configure and start ActiveMQ first as [described in the ActiveMQ installation section
](#install-apache-activemq).

Then start Opencast by running:

    systemctl start opencast.service

While Opencast is preconfigured, it is strongly recommended to follow at least the [Basic Configuration guide
](../configuration/basic.md). It will help you to set your hostname, login information, …


Advanced Installation
---------------------

The basic installation will give you an all-in-one Opencast distribution on a single server.  For productions, most
users prefer deploying Opencast over several machines, which allows for a better workload distribution.  You can list
all available Opencast packages with:

    yum search opencast

This will list all available Opencast distributions in the form `opencast<version>-<dist-type>`. Some commonly used
distributions are:

- `opencast<version>-allinone`
- `opencast<version>-admin`
- `opencast<version>-presentation`
- `opencast<version>-worker`


Upgrading Major Versions
------------------------

Packages will automatically upgrade to the latest minor version in a release series. They do not automatically upgrade
the latest major version. This is intentional since additional migration steps might be necessary for that. For example,
if you install `opencast7-admin` you get the latest 7.x release, not the latest 8.x release. To upgrade from one major
version to another, please consult the upgrade guide for each major version. Still, here is a short overview of the
required steps:

First, stop Opencast:

    systemctl stop opencast.service

As a reminder, these instructions will upgrade your Opencast installation to a new version which is likely incompatible
with older versions, and cannot be rolled back. If you are performing this on a production system, please ensure you
have valid backups prior to taking the next steps.

Uninstall your current Opencast package:

    yum remove opencast

Then install the new version:

    yum install opencast<version>-<distribution>

At this point you must follow the relevant [upgrade instructions](../upgrade.md), prior to starting Opencast again.


Uninstall Opencast
--------------------

To uninstall Opencast, you can run:

    yum remove opencast

This will not touch your created media files or *modified* configuration files.  If you want to remove them as well, you
have to do that by yourself.

    # Remove media files (default location)
    sudo rm -rf /srv/opencast

    # Remove local db, search indexes and working files
    sudo rm -rf /var/lib/opencast

    # Remove configuration files
    sudo rm -rf /etc/opencast

    # Remove logs
    sudo rm -rf /var/log/opencast


Troubleshooting
---------------

### Missing Dependencies

If you try to install Opencast but yum is complaining about missing dependencies, please check if the epel repository is
really activated on your system. Some distributions come with epel preinstalled but disabled. The installation of the
epel-release package will not fix this. You can check what repositories are installed and enabled by executing
`yum repolist enabled` which should give you a list with epel, opencast and opencast-noarch in it. To enable a
repository, edit the configuration file in `/etc/yum.repos.d/`.
